# 2020.04.01-NUS-Telecommuting-Arrangements



MOM announcements 2020.03.31

Josephine Teo COVID-19: Firms that do not allow telecommuting where 'reasonably practicable' may be issued stop-work order.

https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/covid19-firms-do-not-allow-telecommuting-stop-work-order-12594322

[DQ: Keyword above is **allow**.]



President's message:

| from:    | **Office of the President** <officeofthepresident@nus.edu.sg> |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| to:      |                                                              |
| date:    | 1 Apr 2020, 17:03                                            |
| subject: | NUS President's Letter 2020-04                               |

1 April 2020

NUS Faculty and Staff

In light of the evolving COVID-19 situation in Singapore, all units in the University have initiated their respective business continuity plans (BCPs) since February as a precautionary measure for the safety and wellbeing of our campus community. Different arrangements such as split teams, staggered working hours and telecommuting have been put in place to support the units’ operations.

Your health and wellbeing is important to us. As we work together to navigate through this critical period, I have instructed all NUS units to review their BCPs and provide the option of telecommuting for staff where possible, unless it involves the provision of essential services (for example, security, health services, housing, IT and lab services). Your Head of Faculty/Department/Unit is assessing the needs of your Faculty/ Department/ Unit and will be communicating to you on the possibility of full telecommuting. This is in line with the latest approach from the Ministry of Manpower on encouraging companies to allow telecommuting for employees, where practicable, to mitigate the possible spread of the virus in the workplace.

Colleagues should continue to practise good personal hygiene and behave in a socially responsible manner – this includes staying at home during this period of telecommuting. If your home environment is not suitable, please return to the office, but continue to work by the precautionary measures and safe distancing guidelines provided by the authorities and NUS.  

I ask that all staff abide by these enhanced measures for your own safety as well as your loved ones and our community. If you have any further questions, please email: [covid-19@nus.edu.sg](mailto:covid-19@nus.edu.sg) or contact the management office of your department.



[DQ: keyphrases: "will be communicating to you on the possibility of full telecommuting. This is in line with the latest approach from the Ministry of Manpower on encouraging companies to **allow** telecommuting for employees, where practicable, to mitigate the possible spread of the virus in the workplace." 

"If your home environment is not suitable, please return to the office, but continue to work by the precautionary measures and safe distancing guidelines provided by the authorities and NUS."]



> **From:** Lim Suk Hong <[sukhong@nus.edu.sg](mailto:sukhong@nus.edu.sg)>
> **Date:** 1 April 2020 at 5:43:05 PM SGT
>
> **Subject:** **FW: Telecommuting**

Please refer to the email below from Prof Chen Tsuhan, Deputy President (Research and Technology).

> Dear colleagues,
>
>  
>
> In view of the recent directive from MOM, NUS will allow staff to telecommute when possible. That will apply to research that is not lab-based and admin support that can be done remotely. For research based in labs and onsite technical support, understandably telecommuting would not be possible.
>
>  
>
> Please work with members in your research groups on the detailed arrangements, to allow telecommuting when possible. Advise them that, when telecommuting, they should avoid crowded places. That is, working from home is the right thing to do.
>
>  
>
> Please adhere to government advisories. We can all do our part. Take care and stay healthy.
>
>  
>
> Tsuhan
>
> ===



[DQ: Keyphrase above is "In view of the recent directive from MOM, NUS will **allow** staff to telecommute when possible."]



| from:    | **Provost's Circular Manager** <provostscircular@nus.edu.sg> |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| to:      |                                                              |
| date:    | 1 Apr 2020, 18:03                                            |
| subject: | Implementing Telecommuting                                   |

NUS INTERNAL

SDPPVO 17/20

1 April 2020

NUS Teaching Staff

 

Dear Teaching Staff,



**Implementing Telecommuting** 

In line with yesterday's Ministry of Manpower directive, NUS will be implementing telecommuting for all staff, where practical, to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in the workplace. Therefore, we would like you to telecommute, where possible. 

With effect from next week, all in-person classes will move to e-learning. In addition, all face-to-face examinations and tests will move to alternative modes of assessment (e.g., online examinations, tests, or assignments). Module lecturers are to inform their students about the specific arrangements for their modules. 

We can all do our part by adhering strictly to safe distancing. The health of our community depends on each of us. Please stay healthy and safe!

 

Prof Bernard Tan
Senior Vice Provost (Undergraduate Education)

 

Prof Susanna Leong
Vice Provost (Masters' Programmes and Lifelong Education)

 

Prof Shen Zuowei
Vice Provost (Graduate Education)



{DQ: Keyphrases: "In line with yesterday's Ministry of Manpower directive, NUS will be implementing telecommuting for all staff, where practical, to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in the workplace. Therefore, we would like you to telecommute, where possible."}