# 2020.03.27-Danny.Quah-Caution-LKYSPP-COVID-19-Coping-Strategies

Subject:  Update 2020.03.27 COVID-19 // LKYSPP Community // Due and undue abundance of caution // LKYSPP COVID-19 coping strategies

Students, colleagues, friends - A number of large changes have occurred recently in LKYSPP practice, and I thought it might be useful to unpack some of the thinking that went into them.  Here, I look specifically at two things: first, our international students returning to their home nations, and second, split-team working. I conclude with some general lessons I've myself taken from these.

In reflecting on our strategies, we should always keep in mind official rules and advisories. Nothing we do should ever transgress those. But I also think it's useful to have a view of the world where official directives provide a guide in setting a threshold that one should not cross but where, in specific circumstances, one can afford to be marginally more cautious. It is in that spirit that I discuss the two subjects below.



## International Students

1. Several **nations** &mdash; Norway, the US, India, Malaysia, Thailand, Australia, Bhutan, Israel, France, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the Philippines, among others &mdash; have asked their citizens to return home, just as Singapore has done of its own nationals. Individual families and concerned parents too have put out the same call on their loved ones coming home to be with them. This has occurred at a time of rising restrictions on international travel, with strong prospect for more. We appreciate the stress this has placed on everyone. At LKYSPP we have facilitated returns of our students as best we can, while making sure that those who wish to remain in Singapore are taken care of and know they are welcomed. For those who decided to return to their home nation, LKYSPP continues their scholarship support even after they leave Singapore. We put in place digital and online capacity so our students' learning continue; we organised examination procedures that make sure no student is disadvantaged on their assessment, regardless where they might be. All this has been done, acknowledging the exigent circumstances in which we have found ourselves.  But there will be no compromise on standards in this arrangement. 
2. For **fairness and solidarity** with those who have gone home in this way, LKYSPP has additionally called for all our modules to go entirely digital and online. LKYSPP is unlike other communities at NUS in first that we are an exclusively graduate school, and second in that 80% of our students are from outside Singapore. It is one thing to have two or three students absent from a lecture of 25&mdash;such a class meeting can certainly continue relatively normally. It is something else, however, to have 80% of the lecture attendants not physically present. We decided, therefore, that it was better to have everyone online. We realise that compared to our usual mode of operation this might potentially detract from the student experience. We have worked very hard to preserve the best experience, and will continue to improve practice. This all-online structure will apply for the rest of this Semester [so just three more weeks], and will be reviewed subsequently.
3. In line with this major changes have been announced on our PAE and GSP procedures. We are pursuing alternatives to the traditional end of year Valedictory Dinners.
4. My own personal view stems from acknowledging the **sharp asymmetry** in the risk situation in which we find ourselves. Technically, it's not just the average that matters for everything in an epidemic outbreak; important also is the tail outlier. We can feel 95% protected, having gone online to that degree, say. That high a protection ratio then reduces mean exposure correspondingly. We might therefore feel protected and safe to a 95% degree. However, the remaining 5% could well be what drives 80% of the social infection. (The [South Korea situation][2020.03-Reuters-Korean-Cluster] illustrated this tragically. In initial stages intensive testing kept matters under control, but then the one young woman (Patient 31) who didn't get tested when she'd been advised to do so, attended service twice at the Shincheonji Church of Jesus, and exposed the coronavirus to 9300 others. Within a short space of time this specific event pushed confirmed cases in South Korea into the hundreds.)  There is a judgment call in everything. Releasing our students in the way we have done recognises they are grownups with specific proclivities on coronavirus transmission; no social disruption ensues from their not being in school; and they are well-placed to take care of themselves.

The other large change that's taken hold at LKYSPP is of course the arrangement where half our colleagues are asked to work from home.



## Split Teams 

1. **Split-Team**: In line with Business Continuity Plan strategies all across NUS, LKYSPP too has organised all staff into two split teams. (For the NUS Crisis Executive Group managing the University’s response to the COVID-19 crisis, the Teams A and B wear blue and orange lanyards respectively &mdash; so we can also call this split Teams Blue and Orange.)  There is physical segregation across teams, not just at work but also socially.  Team Blue members should avoid meeting Team Orange members in face-to-face meetings or over meals.  When it's Team Blue's turn on campus, Team Orange must work from home. (NUS President clarified on Thu 26 Mar that when absolutely necessary, a short meeting is possible across Blue and Orange individuals, provided safe distancing of at least 2m is strictly practiced. In the main, however, physical segregation should be the expected norm.) 
2. **Split-Team-Plus** In light of MOH Advisory ([MOH, 24 Mar 2020][2020.03.24-MOH-Tighter-Measures]) and Minister Lawrence Wong's statements ([Straits Times, 24 Mar 2020][2020.03.24-Lawrence.Wong-ST]) on the rising risks, Senior Management at the School considered strengthening the Split-Team arrangement. The idea we discussed maintained everything already being done under Split-Team but added to it: so we called this Split-Team-Plus. The arrangement we thought of is this: Regardless whether it is Team Blue or Orange meant to be BTC-active that week, we would request for working from home, not just the other Team, but even those in that BTC-active team, provided their work can be done from home. Again, this obviously does not change how the other team behaves: they're already meant to stay home.  Nor does this mean shutting down LKYSPP at BTC or people not needing to work. Instead, Split-Team-Plus just means a few more people working from home, further lightening our footprint at BTC and further reducing the burden on Singapore's transport system. While Split-Team-Plus remains an option in our thinking, for now our calculations in consultation with NUS management, taking into account advisories from MOH, MOE, and elsewhere, have led us to conclude that LKYSPP does not have to go to Split-Team-Plus. We are sticking with Split-Team.
3. **Thresholds and caution**. My personal view is that these rules described above (in the Split-Team arrangement, and in MOH and NUS Advisories) set for us thresholds that we must not overstep. However, we can, with abundant caution in specific circumstances, seek to work a little way inside those boundaries. Split-Team-Plus is an example of that: it pays mind to NUS BCP but then adds a little more caution on top. Always, of course, good sense needs to prevail, and the right calculation needs to be done to measure up risk appetite and costs vs benefits. There need not be a one-sized-fits-all solution, but they all have to remain within the boundary. However we choose to proceed there always needs to be serious thinking behind the decision taken. I've described what our thinking was in deliberating between Split-Team and Split-Team-Plus. 
4. **Looking ahead**. I am certain that many more such deliberative situations will arise in the future, and I will need all your help and insight and cooperation in navigating our way ahead. It looks, for now, that the COVID-19 outbreak will be with us for a while.  Many major decisions are having to be undertaken daily, and sometimes we won't be able to explain everything in the underlying reasoning in great detail. But my seeing how as a School we've adapted and managed these last one and a half months, I am certain we will come through this well and be stronger than ever before.



## Conclusion

Singapore is not under lockdown the way a lot of the rest of the world has gone.  [Minister Lawrence Wong, 24 Mar 2020][2020.03.24-Lawrence.Wong-ST] described the situation this way: "All over the world, millions of people are living in a different reality. Workplaces are closed, shops are empty, roads are empty, everyone is asked to stay home. We are not experiencing this in Singapore - not yet, but we cannot be complacent." 

Closer to home for the academics, you might have already heard that Harvard University's President Lawrence Bacow and his wife Adele tested positive for COVID-19 this week ([Harvard Crimson, 25 Mar 2020][2020.03.25-Harvard-President-COVID-19-Crimson]). So the Harvard leadership is needing to adjust, some going online. Even before this, all Harvard's students had already been asked to not return to campus, and Harvard's classes moved online. Similar reorganisations are being made on university campuses all across the world. 

Any time that such social arrangements are put in place, the individual in the group sees multiple competing concerns. Often a tradeoff emerges on what the individual feels they ought to be able to do and what is being told them is the social imperative. To take just one example, even today as Singapore sees rising COVID-19 incidence driven by imported cases, about 1000 Singaporean residents continue daily to travel abroad ([ST 24 Mar 2020][2020.03.24-Singaporean-residents-travel-abroad-still-ST]). This might be because they see an individual benefit to their doing so, but do not take into account the costs, social or specific.  Or they might appreciate the latter, but for them the individual benefit remains larger.  The Singapore government has decided that should these people contract COVID-19 and need to receive treatment, they will pay the full costs of hospital treatment and medical care, and be unable to claim from MediShield Life or Integrated Shield Plan for their treatment. This helps align better the real costs for the individual, against what they continue to see for individual benefit. But the solution remains imperfect, for the social cost of epidemic&mdash;the negative externality that is the spillover from infecting others&mdash;has not been factored in and brought explicitly to the attention of that individual's pocketbook. Every nation's healthcare system and personnel are under considerable stress. As with many of you, I have personal friends in the medical care profession bravely continuing to go in to work under extreme conditions, because the COVID-19 outbreak continues to rage across the world. The externality is not yet internalised.

Again, Singapore is not under lockdown. Any country in the world, however, that does not get matters under control will see that possibility become more and more probable. At NUS we've already taken a great deal of thoughtful care in how we're navigating this time. I suggest that in isolated pockets like LKYSPP we might be able to do a bit more, while keeping very much to what official advisories say. All of us need to cooperate on that, and be understanding of what is needed.

If complete lockdown happens, our lives will be severely impacted. We can take a bit more care now, inconvenient though it might be, and keep things otherwise as normal and open as possible. Or we can choose to be careless, and face the rising possibility of a complete lockdown. Together we can work to prevent that and instead keep as much as possible our normal way of life.





[2020.03-Reuters-Korean-Cluster]: https://graphics.reuters.com/CHINA-HEALTH-SOUTHKOREA-CLUSTERS/0100B5G33SB/index.html "The Korean Cluster"
[2020.03.24-MOH-Tighter-Measures]: https://www.moh.gov.sg/news-highlights/details/tighter-measures-to-minimise-further-spread-of-covid-19 "Tighter Measures to Minimise Further Spread of COVID-19"
[2020.03.24-Lawrence.Wong-ST]: https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/health/all-entertainment-venues-in-singapore-to-close-gatherings-outside-work-and-school	"Min Lawrence Wong, Gatherings restrictions, ST 24 Mar 2020"
[2020.03.25-Harvard-President-COVID-19-Crimson]: https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2020/3/25/harvard-coronavirus-bacow-tests-positive/ "Harvard President Bacow tested positive for COVID-19"
[2020.03.24-Singaporean-residents-travel-abroad-still-ST]: https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/singapore-residents-who-continue-to-travel-will-pay-full-hospital-charges-if-warded-for "Full hospital charges for Singapore residents continuing to travel abroad"



