# 2020.03.21-COVID-19-Deferment-Short-Term-Visits-HR-2020.024

HR 2020/024

21 March 2020

| From:    | **HR Circulars** <hr_circulars@nus.edu.sg>                   |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| to:      | NUS Deans <NUSDeans@nus.edu.sg>, NUS Admin Heads <NUSAH@nus.edu.sg> ... |
| date:    | 22 Mar 2020, 00:25                                           |
| subject: | COVID-19: DEFERMENT OF SHORT-TERM VISITS WITH IMMEDIATE EFFECT AND WORK PLACE ARRANGEMENTS |

Dear Colleagues

**COVID-19: DEFERMENT OF SHORT-TERM VISITS WITH IMMEDIATE EFFECT AND WORK PLACE ARRANGEMENTS**

In relation to the latest precautionary measures by the Singapore authorities, please note that all Departments are to stop receiving short-term visitors as well as visiting staff on visits of less than 6 months with immediate effect. Where appropriate, Departments may reschedule the visit/visiting appointment to a later date when the global COVID-19 situation is under better control. The arrangement is to be reviewed again at the end of July 2020.

Departments should also defer the on-boarding of all new foreign hires until the end of July 2020, as they will not covered by NUS medical insurance during the 2-week Stay-Home Notice.

Departments are reminded to continue measures to reduce close physical interaction among employees. All NUS Faculties, Schools, Research Institutes and Centres, and Offices must have their Business Continuity Plans (BCP) updated and in place. If you are on a split team arrangement, the team rostered to telecommute or work from home should not be working at a separate site at NUS as far as possible. 

For teams rostered to work from office that week, Departments should implement staggered working hours (for both reporting and ending times – for example starting 7.30 am, 8.30 am and 9.30 am; and ending 5 pm, 6 pm and 7 pm correspondingly). Where possible, reporting and ending times should not coincide with peak-hour travel.

We seek your understanding as we do our part to combat this viral outbreak. Thank you for your cooperation.

Please contact me directly if you have any concerns.



Yours sincerely

 

Professor Phoon Kok Kwang

Vice Provost (Academic Personnel)