# 2020.03.25-Proposed-COVID-19-Measures-at-LKYSPP-DQ

Wed 25 Mar 2020

Following statements the previous evening by MOH and [Minister Lawrence Wong][2020.03.24-Lawrence.Wong-ST], LKYSPP Incident Commanders and Senior Management decided it would be best if we

1. Acknowledge that our foreign students should return to their respective nations, given calls from their governments to do so and the rising possibility of ever tighter travel restrictions;
2. Move all classes online;
3. Institute Work-From-Home WFH for all LKYSPP staff, already on split-team, so that even those on their BTC-Active week would stay home unless absolutely needed on campus.

I consulted Simon Chesterman, Ching, Huang_Hoon, and others on WA. There was general agreement that these were the right things to do, especially 



| from:    | **Danny Quah** <D.Quah@nus.edu.sg>                           |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| to:      | Eng_Chye Tan <TanEngChye@nus.edu.sg>, "Ho, Teck_Hua" <teck@nus.edu.sg> |
| date:    | 25 Mar 2020, 13:57                                           |
| subject: | Seeking your view and advice // Mar 2020 Proposed COVID-19 Measures at LKYSPP #dqWR-0387733 |

Dear Eng Chye and Teck:

I have received the latest PVO advisory. If I may, could I describe what we're hoping to do at LKYSPP on this, and why. The reason for my writing to you on it is that our LKYSPP proposal goes beyond what's been put down in the advisory. To be very clear, this is just taking a small step beyond the latest advisory; it is most definitely NOT an LKYSPP shutdown/ lockdown.

Perhaps I could get your views on whether we've gone too tough, or whether these might be considerations others might wish to deliberate on as well.

At LKYSPP we have encouraged our foreign students &mdash; 80% of our student population &mdash; to follow their national government's advice and head home. LKYSPP will continue their scholarship support even after they've left, and we are doing everything we can to keep their learning online and uninterrupted. We do this recognising that their being caught here in Singapore, should restrictions tighten even further in their home nations or here, will imply near-unbearable medical costs once they are no longer covered by insurance. 

In consultation with other members of senior management and our Incident Commanders, I want further:

1. to have no F2F classes at all, through the end of Sem 2. What happens thereafter will be reviewed before the new Semester or Academic Year begins. 
   1. To the extent possible we have worked very hard to ensure standards are not compromised; it is only a small group that is affected. This won't work for all of NUS but LKYSPP can make it work.  
   2. Going fully online is an expression of solidarity with our foreign students who have had to leave, and therefore have no choice in the matter. (Again, this applies pretty much only to LKYSPP; it's a very different foreign/Singaporean mix from the rest of NUS)
   3. My own personal worries here stem from asymmetry. It's not the mean that matters for everything in an epidemic outbreak; it's the super-spreader. We can be 95% protected [having gone online to that degree]; that high a protection ratio then makes the average exposure low. However, the remaining 5% will be what drives 80% of the infection. The S. Korea case illustrated this when in initial stages intensive testing kept matters under control, but then the one young woman (Patient 31) who didn't get tested when she'd been advised to do so, and then attended service twice at the Shincheonji Church of Jesus, exposed the coronavirus to 9300 others. Within a short space of time this drove confirmed cases in South Korea into the hundreds. 
   4. Singapore is prohibiting gatherings with more than 10 people. I understand that within our University community the nature of meetings and community members are more controlled and better known, but I don't see how the balance of risks leads to meetings of 25 being appropriate. Outside gatherings of 10 will likely be transient; inside, on the other hand, meetings of 25 are sustained - 3 hours a week, week after week.
2. to go beyond split-team work and to actively encourage everyone to work from home unless they are absolutely essential to the School's running. This means that even if it's Team A's week at work, unless someone absolutely cannot get their work done remotely, they should stay home, whether they're Team A or Team B. Anyone needing to be on campus can do so only if it's their Team's turn. The School very much keeps running; it is just that at the margin a lot more work is being done from home. As with NUS's policies on short-term visit deferment and onboarding of new foreign hires [HR 2020/024], this arrangement will be reviewed at the end of July 2020.
3. to defer absolutely all travel outside Singapore, acknowledging that if they leave from Fri 27 Mar and they contract COVID-19 for which they need treatment, they will need to pay unsubsidised treatment rates and be unable to claim from MediShield Life or Integrated Shield Plan for their treatment;
4. to continue their personal hygiene regimen, their travel plans declaration, and their twice-daily temperature taking and reporting.

Items 3. and 4. are, I reckon, already being done everywhere. It's items 1. and 2. that I hope you might be OK with for LKYSPP.

Just a few general observations:

1. Singapore is not under lockdown the way a lot of the rest of the world has gone. However, if we don't get matters under control, that possibility will become more and more probable. At NUS generally we've already taken a great deal of thoughtful care. In the above I'm suggesting that in isolated pockets like LKYSPP we might be able to do a bit more.
2. Minister Lawrence Wong said yesterday: "All over the world, millions of people are living in a different reality. Workplaces are closed, shops are empty, roads are empty, everyone is asked to stay home. We are not experiencing this in Singapore - not yet, but we cannot be complacent."  
3. If that complete lockdown happens, our lives will be severely impacted. We can take a bit more care now, inconvenient though it might be, and keep things otherwise as normal and open as possible. Or we can choose to be careless, and face the rising possibility of a complete lockdown.
4. PS As you might have heard early this morning, Harvard University President Laurence Bacow and his wife Adele have tested positive for COVID-19, confirmed 1300h Tue 24 Mar 2020 (EST). Symptoms - coughs, fevers, chills, muscle aches - appeared Sun 22 Mar; they had contacted doctors Mon 23 Mar.  They had, in fact, already begun working from home early on, from Sat 14 Mar. The rest of Harvard senior management team will be taking on more of the leadership work over the next few weeks. President Bacow says they don't know who from they might have contracted the disease.
5. PPS Minister Ong Ye Kung's [FB post][Mar-2020-LKYSPP-Proposal-1] described three reasons for keeping schools working as normal. Is LKYSPP's proposal consistent with that reasoning? I suggest Yes. The first reason Minister provided is science: COVID-19 affects adults more than the young; adults are more likely vectors of the coronavirus. For both these reasons, children are safer in schools. By contrast, LKYSPP's students are all adults. Second, disruption: Closing down schools will be seriously disruptive, not least for their parents who might be healthcare workers or other providers of essential services. Not so, my proposals on LKYSPP's mode of operation. Third, precaution: The schools environment allows considered and controlled care, at scale, to Singapore's young population. The consideration is different for the grown adults who are our students, faculty, or staff, whose latitude for behaviour is much broader than that school children regularly access. (Ends - below my notes before continuing with Eng Chye and Teck's responses)



Part of this

1. From [Thu 26 Mar 2020 2359h (via Multi-Ministry Task Force)][1]
   1. gatherings outside work and schools limited to 10 people; 
   2. centre-based tuition and enrichment classes suspended; 
   3. malls, museums, restaurants to reduce crowd density if they are to remain open (no more than one person per 16 sq m usable space);
   4. Singapore residents returning from UK and US from Wed 25 Mar 2359h on to stay in hotels for SHN14
2. Any Singapore resident or long-term pass holder leaving Singapore from Fri 27 Mar on:
   1. will pay unsubsidised rates in they are hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment in public hospitals;
   2. will be unable to claim from MediShield Life or Integrated Shield Plan for COVID-19 treatments at public or private hospitals.
3. Singapore is not under lockdown the way a lot of the rest of the world has gone. However, if we don't get matters under control, that possibility will become more and more likely. Minister Lawrence Wong said: "All over the world, millions of people are living in a different reality. Workplaces are closed, shops are empty, roads are empty, everyone is asked to stay home. We are not experiencing this in Singapore - not yet, but we cannot be complacent."  If that complete lockdown happens, our lives will be severely impacted.

Under 3., we can take a bit more care now, inconvenient though it might be, and keep things otherwise as normal and open as possible. Or be careless, and face a rising possibility of a complete lockdown.



() LKYSPP Risk Factors

Scenario: LKYSPP identified as COVID-19 Cluster

Risk factors:

1. Visitors
2. Team A / Team B lax, cross-team contamination
3. Essential on-site services, needed to keep the business of the School running
4. Faculty insisting on coming in, not keeping to WFH advice.
5. Faculty offices inadvertently being the vector for cross-team contamination (because Faculty did not keep to A/B weeks and insisted on access to their offices)

Costs to actors:

- Essential campus services required, can't shut down the School altogether
- Care for those in the community who require our assistance
- Faculty concern and student demand for F2F teaching; higher quality
- Individual faculty aversion to WFH
- (Others?)

| from:    | **Tan Eng Chye** <tanengchye@nus.edu.sg>                     |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| to:      | Danny Quah <d.quah@nus.edu.sg>, Ho Teck Hua <teck@nus.edu.sg> |
| cc:      | Ovidia Lim-Rajaram <ovidia@nus.edu.sg>                       |
| date:    | 25 Mar 2020, 14:42                                           |
| subject: | RE: Seeking your view and advice // Mar 2020 Proposed COVID-19 Measures at LKYSPP #dqWR-0387733 |

Dear Danny

We need not follow too precisely MOH’s recommendations (for other situations), as the recommendations are targeted towards the general public who may not understand the reason for social distancing. I assume our staff and students knows that once we are separated by 2 metres, the chance that we catch the virus is significantly reduced. This is the underlying concept for social distancing. So, our interventions can follow this concept.

Thus, my comments on your 4 points:

(1) – I agree, especially if that is the student’s country’s advice. However, if the student wishes to stay (because Singapore is perceived to be safer), we should allow them too. I am also mindful that your foreign students dominate each class, and so having physical classes with the majority of the students missing may subject them to the feeling that they are disadvantaged. In short, it is alright to have all your classes go online.

(2) – I think having one team working from home, as part of your BCP, is good enough for now. Physical meetings can still go on, and not the total cancellation, as long as colleagues are separated by 2 metres. You would have sufficient rooms (and tables) for such meetings.  

(3) – we have already disallowed official travels as well as research travels. If staff go on vacation travels, then the part on payment of medical costs will apply (as you had pointed out). Please do make sure that staff do not go for official and research travels during this period.

(4) – ok

 

Thanks



| from:    | **Ho Teck Hua** <teck@nus.edu.sg>                            |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| to:      | Tan Eng Chye <tanengchye@nus.edu.sg>, Danny Quah <d.quah@nus.edu.sg> |
| cc:      | Ovidia Lim-Rajaram <ovidia@nus.edu.sg>                       |
| date:    | 25 Mar 2020, 14:46                                           |
| subject: | RE: Seeking your view and advice // Mar 2020 Proposed COVID-19 Measures at LKYSPP #dqWR-0387733 |

I agree with Eng Chye’s all four points. Thanks Danny. Teck



References

[2020.03.24-Lawrence.Wong-ST]: https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/health/all-entertainment-venues-in-singapore-to-close-gatherings-outside-work-and-school	"Min Lawrence Wong, Gatherings restrictions, ST 24 Mar 2020"
[2020.03.22-OYK-FB]: https://www.facebook.com/ongyekung/posts/331974843803973	"Min OYK FB (22 Mar 2020) post on schools remaining open"

