# 2020.03.28-LKYSPP-BCP-NUS-reporting

(2020.03.28 1200h) New WhatsApp group // LKYSS-BCP-NUS-reporting

Eng Chye

Teck Hua

Kwet_Yew Yong +65.9101.0938

Benjamin Ong NUHS +65.9664.5710

Thian Guan Peck, OSHE +65.9694.1760

Ravi Sockalingam Ravindran, OSHE +65.9181.0423

Yik_Ying Teo +65.8522.9509

DQ

(2020.03.28) WA // LKYSS-BCP-NUS-reporting

We apply due caution for everyone, but we treat all as healthy unless they are confirmed positive. So, in the normal course of operation:

1. We have sanitizers available at egress points of all common areas, and we strongly encourage their use on entry and exit. 
2. Cleaning frequency has been stepped up in all areas. In bathrooms and pantry areas, cleaners replenish sanitizers and clean and disinfect once in the mornings and then again in the afternoons.
3. Between weeks, when split teams switch, all common areas are well-cleaned and disinfected before the next team comes in for the new week.
4. If we are informed of any suspect case, we contact OSHE, OCS, and PVO immediately. To the extent that we can, we trace whereabouts and contacts. Rooms where the suspect case has been are immediately sealed off, and a special team is called in for thorough cleaning and disinfecting.

We have kept to the 25 Feb 2020  Protocol for Managing COVID-19 as far as possible, except we try to take extra care whenever needed. Happy to administer updates when we're informed.

() Yes, since our students are mostly international, we have continued with the Admissions and Enrollment process as normal. For those students who began the year here at Bukit Timah Campus last August, we have paid mind to the call of their national governments to return home, and in view of rising travel restrictions everywhere, we have allowed those international students to return home. Hand in hand with that, we have moved all teaching entirely digital and online. We will review all this in July, but if the COVID-19 situation is unchanged or worsened, we plan to continue with this digital and online delivery.

() Our closing date was early December and that was, of course, a few weeks before the crisis went global or even reached Singapore.  Bearing that in mind, we saw no dip in application numbers overall.

() Total number enrolled in degree programs 273. Students currently still in Singapore 141, and continuing to decline from international students scrambling for tickets and other passage out. Within next 3 weeks this will likely go down to 121.

(from Florence email 26 Mar 2020 2120h 151 / 214 plus MPAs 10 / 59 so 141 / 273. Another 20 MPAs will have completed by end of Sem 2, so they will likely leave taking us to )

Final, but uncommunicated to NUS (from SK 2020.03.28 2040h): 

MPA 6 left, 50 still here, MPPS 6 left/leaving, 63 still here
MPPJ 13 left/leaving, 58 still here
MIAS 3 left/leaving, 20 still here
MIAJ 3 left, 19 still here
PHD 9 left, 24 still here

Total = 14.5% have left